Hi, my name is Miguel Xochicale. I am presenting piloting diversity and inclusion workshops in Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for children. The content of the slides are: Introduction, resources to promote Diversity and Inclusion in AI and Robotics, designing and piloting diversity and inclusion workshops, conclusion, limitations and future work. The following are few challenges when promoting diversity and inclusion of AI and Robotics for children in low-income countries: AI and Robotics workshops are usually expensive courses and these are taught in private schools, there are little to none specialist to teach AI and Robotics, and there are little to none child-centre materials on those specialised fields for gender balanced groups. That said, we hypothesised that piloting workshops in a Mexican town might lead to have better understanding of the needs and challenges of promoting diversity and inclusion of teaching AI and robotics for children with open educational resources. Such resources to promote diversity and inclusion in AI and Robotics for children are: free and open-source software and hardware and open educational resources, where one example is otto humanoid which is a 200 euros educational robot. Another one is ensuring education and inclusive learning where personalisation of education, appropriation of the technology as a community resource and schools as lifelong learning spaces. And the third one: Alternative educational programs with new technologies such as Montessori, Waldorf and Regio Emilia where for this work we adopted Montessori principle based on the concept of concrete to abstract: “What the hand does, the mind remembers”. 
To design diversity and inclusion workshops we consider four lessons. For lesson one, children develop their curiosity about AI while emphasising the importance of interpersonal connections. In lesson 2, children began to work with more abstract concepts, developing problem-solving skills as well as cooperatively working relationships. For lesson 3, children incorporated knowledge they gained previously and were able to put concepts together. And for lesson 4, children showcase their final work promoting a sense of achievement and their social emotional well-being. In the diagram also shows the four lessons where each lesson was breaking down into breaking the ice, main activities and wrapping up of the lessons. For piloting such workshops, children enjoyed to learn the fundamentals of AI and robotics by coding, designing, and playing with open-sourced robots. And the instructors embraced the different skills of children in small groups and supported children during each lesson. For conclusions limitations and future work. Considering the resources of open-source software and hardware and principles of Montessori education, we promoted diversity and inclusion of teaching AI and Robotics for children. We successfully organised a pilot workshop of four lessons that promote diversity and inclusion on teaching AI and Robotics for children to small gender-balanced sample of 14 children of average of 7.6 years old. The limitation of our work. We did not consider metrics to quantify the impact of the workshop but we did identify the needs of the workshop that might be addressed in future work.  The workshops were free of cost but no sustainable model was considered for this pilot experiment. And for future work, we will organise a second pilot workshop in late 2022 or early 2023 with more lessons and perhaps invite more participants, and in our next workshop, we will design and run pre-survey to identity the specific needs of participants and will create an appropriate study design. Thank you very much to everyone who participate in the creation of such beautiful work. Please get in touch, we have twitter, github, gmail address and also our github repository where you can find the paper, latex-project, arxiv, references and more. Thank you.
